<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h2>
			<p>Dawn of the summer’s day came hot, without a breath of wind or the usual morning chill. The sun seemed to come up faster than usual. It rose swiftly and flashed like a torch with dazzling rays.</p>
			<p>The dew on the meadows and bushes was drawn up in an instant. The earth was perfectly dry so that the clods crumbled. The forest had been still from an early hour. Only a woodpecker hammered now and then, or the doves cooed their tireless, fervid tenderness.</p>
			<p>Bambi was standing in a little clearing, forming a narrow glade in the heart of the thicket.</p>
			<p>A swarm of midges danced and hummed around his head in the warm sunshine.</p>
			<p>There was a low buzzing among the leaves of the hazel bushes near Bambi, and a big may-beetle crawled out and flew slowly by. He flew among the midges, up and up, till he reached the treetop where he intended to sleep till evening. His wing-covers folded down hard and neatly and his wings vibrated with strength.</p>
			<p>The midges divided to let the may-beetle pass through, and closed behind him again. His dark brown body, over which shone the vibrant glassy shimmer of his whirring wings, flashed for a moment in the sunshine as he disappeared.</p>
			<p>“Did you see him?” the midges asked each other.</p>
			<p>“That’s the old may-beetle,” some of them hummed.</p>
			<p>Others said, “All of his offspring are dead. Only one is still alive. Only one.”</p>
			<p>“How long will he live?” a number of midges asked.</p>
			<p>The others answered, “We don’t know. Some of his offspring live a long time. They live forever almost.⁠ ⁠… They see the sun thirty or forty times, we don’t know exactly how many. Our lives are long enough, but we see the daylight only once or twice.”</p>
			<p>“How long has the old beetle been living?” some very small midges asked.</p>
			<p>“He has outlived his whole family. He’s as old as the hills, as old as the hills. He’s seen more and been through more in this world than we can even imagine.”</p>
			<p>Bambi walked on. “Midge buzzings,” he thought, “midge buzzings.”</p>
			<p>A delicate frightened call came to his ears.</p>
			<p>He listened and went closer, perfectly softly, keeping among the thickest bushes, and moving noiselessly as he had long known how to do.</p>
			<p>The call came again, more urgent, more plaintively. Fawns’ voices were wailing, “Mother! Mother!”</p>
			<p>Bambi glided through the bushes and followed the calls.</p>
			<p>Two fawns were standing side by side, in their little red coats, a brother and sister, forsaken and despondent.</p>
			<p>“Mother! Mother!” they called.</p>
			<p>Before they knew what had happened Bambi was standing in front of them. They stared at him speechlessly.</p>
			<p>“Your mother has no time for you now,” said Bambi severely.</p>
			<p>He looked into the little brother’s eyes. “Can’t you stay by yourself?” he asked.</p>
			<p>The little brother and sister were silent.</p>
			<p>Bambi turned and, gliding into the bushes, disappeared before they had come to their senses. He walked along.</p>
			<p>“The little fellow pleases me,” he thought, “perhaps I’ll meet him again when he’s larger.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>He walked along. “The little girl is nice too,” he thought, “Faline looked like that when she was a fawn.”</p>
			<p>He went on, and vanished in the forest.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
